1. Start by reviewing the data.gov home page. What is this?

Data.gov is a centralized online platform where you can find datasets published by U.S federal government agencies. 

2. Go to Most Viewed Datasets. How many datasets are listed?
402,396 datasets found

3. Find the Topic Category for Human Health. Review the range of data sources
available for this topic. Why do you think these were tagged with the Human Health
category?

 	50 datasets found. These tagged under Human health because they relate to detinants of 		health, health outcomes, environmental exposures that affect people's well-being

4. . Go to the Food Price Outlook. Review the catalog page for this dataset. How can you
navigate to additional datasets from the USDA?

We can navigate to additional datasets by clicking download metadata, click pages such as: consumer-price-index, cpu ... use the reference link : http://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/food-price-outlook/summary-findings.aspx. 

5. Go back to the data.gov home page. This time, click on Datasets by Organization.

6. Try searching for your city, county, and state. What organizations are returned?

17 organizations found for "VA" (Arlington Country, VA- City of cheseapeake- Commodity Futures Trading Commission.)
No organizations found for "alexandria"
2 organizations found for "usa" (Army Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense- National Aero nautical and Space Administration)


7. Search for USDA, and click into the result. Within the USDA datasets, search for food
composition. Notice that the top three results are all datasets concerning nutrition
information. Try searching the USDA page for nutrition. How does that affect your
results?

17 datasets found for "food composition "
229 datasets found for "nutrition "

Searching “food composition” eturns 17 results, mostly nutrition datasets, because food composition data contains nutrient information. Searching “nutrition” gives 229 results since it’s a broader term that includes many health and food assistance datasets. When searchrching “nutrition” the results are limited to USDA datasets only, making them more focused and excluding other agencies’ data.

8-a) a) Try searching for butter, or any of your favorite foods. What kind of results do you
get? What happens when you click on a result?

I'm seeing results under Foundation Foods, which is one of the data types in USA department of Agriculture's FoodData Central such as: 

Almond butter, creamy
Butter (salted & unsalted)
Peanut butter, creamy
Sesame butter, creamy


8-b) this page provides downloadable datasets from FoodData Central, including : 
- Foundation foods
- SR Legacy 
- FNDDS 
- Branded 
How big are these files ?
The file size vary depending on the dataset: 
 
- Foundation Foods: around 6–29 MB (unzipped)
- SR Legacy: up to 205 MB (unzipped JSON)
- FNDDS: up to 1.6 GB (unzipped)
- Branded Foods: up to 3.1 GB (unzipped)
- Full Download (All Data Types): about 3.1 GB

Where can you find more information on the data types available?
-in the Data Type Documentation and in the download field description and the API documentation 

